sudo apt update
sudo apt install ffmpeg   - for transcripting, dependency
 Technologies

1.transcripting
Loads the pretrained Whisper model from disk (or downloads it if not present).
        1.OpenAI Whisper:
        A general-purpose speech recognition model released by OpenAI that can transcribe audio into text.

    2. whisper Python Library:
        A wrapper around the Whisper model that makes transcription very easy to use locally.

    ⚙️ Behind the Scenes: Whisper Processing Pipeline
        1. Audio Preprocessing
             Converts MP3/WAV to spectrogram (like an image of sound)

        2.Language Detection
            Auto-detects the spoken language

        3.Tokenization
            Breaks audio into smaller segments for the model to handle

        4.Transcription
            A Transformer-based encoder-decoder model converts sound → words

        5.Output Formatting
            Returns text, timestamps, and language (you use only ["text"] here)


2.Summarization
    Summarization takes the raw transcript (long, unstructured text) and turns it into:

    ✅ Key discussion points
    📌 Action items with names and deadlines
    ❓ Open questions or follow-ups

    This gives you structured, concise notes instead of a wall of text.
    1. Local LLM — Mistral via Ollama
        You're using the Mistral language model locally.
        Mistral is a 7B parameter open-weight model, good for summarization, reasoning, and structured tasks.
        You access it through an API running locally (via Ollama).

Streamlit:
1.tempfile

    with NamedTemporaryFile(delete=False, suffix=".mp3") as tmp:
        tmp.write(audio_file.read())
        temp_path = tmp.name

        Takes the uploaded audio file (audio_file.read())
        Saves it temporarily to disk
        The path (temp_path) is then used by your Whisper model

2.What is Base64?
    Base64 is a way of encoding binary data (like images, PDFs, audio) into a text format using only ASCII characters (letters, digits, +, /, =).
    This is super useful when:

    You need to embed files into HTML, CSS, or Python strings
    You want to send files over text-based protocols like JSON or HTTP
    You want to download files via a hyperlink in Streamlit
    